### Clarity and pivot

9/28/24

Today I came across [this tweet](https://x.com/TechEmails/status/1840102742267777251) and [this yt video](https://youtu.be/oHyQBqMSqeI?si=NOT6D7qPu_VbVjjo), which in combination hit a nerve, so here are my prompted thoughts. 

The tweet is about an email where Mark Zuckerberg discusses the big strategic risk Instagram poses to Facebook and how they need to ship a competing product fast. What stands out, at least to me at this moment, is how clear Mark is about Facebook's current products and what else they need to build to dominate Instagram and own the space. What's more, his product requests are based on clear understanding of his user base and what they like. 

In the yt video, Kevin Systrom (co-founder of Instagram) talks about a premise that most successful products are often pivots and one of the big mistakes builders make is sticking to an idea for far too long. 

If I think about it, there are countless products out there and only so many
end up being successful. That small percentage are built by people who
recognize, consciously or accidentally, the problems/needs/wants of their users. That recognition usually comes from pivots. So, my message to myself is build fast (ideally two weeks), get feedback fast (you know when you hit something, so don't settle until then) and either iterate on this-is-a-clear-need-and-this-is-my-solution or pivot fast. Your ego, time and sweat don't mean anything if the users problems/needs/wants are not being met.

